IST 256 Final Project Writeup
Group 5: Will Cressman, Logan Henry, Jeremy Lucotch, Mason Miller


Topic
Restaurant Choices App. We built a web app called Dine Finder where a user can
browse restaurants, save favorites, write personal notes with a 1 to 10 ranking,
and add their own custom restaurants.


Description
Dine Finder is built in Angular 18 with Bootstrap 3 for styling. The app has
three pages that the user can navigate between with the navbar. The browse page
shows all restaurants as cards with search, filter, and sort options. The
detail page shows full info about one restaurant and lets the user add a note
and a personal ranking. The favorites page shows the saved restaurants and
also has a form to add custom restaurants. Restaurant data comes from a local
JSON file and gets fetched async on page load. Favorites, notes, and custom
restaurants are saved to localStorage so they stick around after a refresh.


Features
- Three pages: browse, detail, favorites
- Search restaurants by name or description
- Filter by cuisine, price range, and minimum rating
- Sort by rating, price, or name
- Save and remove favorites with the heart icon on each card
- Write personal notes and a 1 to 10 ranking for any restaurant
- Update or delete a saved note
- Add custom restaurants through a validated form
- Delete custom restaurants from the favorites page
- Two forms with validation (notes form and custom restaurant form)
- Restaurant data loaded from a JSON file with fetch
- Saved data persists in localStorage


Instructions for running locally
You need Node.js installed. Get the LTS version from https://nodejs.org

Install the Angular CLI globally one time:
    npm install -g @angular/cli

Then from inside the Main Site folder:
    npm install
    npm start

This starts the dev server. Open a browser to http://localhost:4200


Member contributions

Logan Henry, Project Manager
Wrote all the page templates including the navbar, browse, detail, favorites,
and custom form. Did the shared CSS theme in styles.css including the dark
navbar, jumbotron header, panels, buttons, and footer. Set up the Angular
project structure, the route definitions, and the app shell.

Mason Miller, Lead Designer
Wrote the browse page logic with the search, filter, and sort pipeline. Wrote
the favorites page logic that pulls saved favorites and custom restaurants
from the data service. Did the card CSS including the heart icon, the cuisine
badge, the gold star rating, and the filter bar.

Will Cressman, Data and Integration Lead
Built the restaurants.json data file with 15 restaurants. Wrote the data
service that fetches the JSON file, manages favorites and notes in
localStorage, and handles add and delete for custom restaurants.

Jeremy Lucotch, QA and Documentation Lead
Wrote the detail page logic and the notes form validation including save,
update, and delete behavior. Wrote the custom restaurant form validation on
the favorites page. Tested every page across the browse, detail, and
favorites flows before submission.
